Rtd review (#342)
ResearchComputing/Documentation: docs/compute/filesystems.md

| Turn on “other” execute bits for `<file_pathname>`           | `chmod o+x <file_pathname>`            |
| Turn off “other” execute for `<file_pathname>`          | `chmod o-x <file_pathname>`             |
| Turn on “group” execute bits for `<file_pathname>`           | `chmod g+x <file_pathname>`             | 
| Turn off “group” execute bits for `<file_pathname>`           | `chmod g-x <file_pathname>`             | 
| Turn on “owner” execute bits for `<file_pathname>`           | `chmod u+x <file_pathname>`             |
| Turn off “owner” execute bits for `<file_pathname>`           | `chmod u-x <file_pathname>`             | 

See the man page for `chmod` for a complete exposition of controlling the permission bits.

## Umask and the mode creation mask

The `umask` environment variable will override indicated permission bits. That is, if a bit is set in the `umask`, the corresponding permissions bit is stripped from default permissions a file or directory would otherwise be created with. This latter default permission set is known as the _mode creation mask_, a parameter each process in the Unix/Linux OS has.
 

> The `umask` is usually represented by a string of octal numbers. So, for example, a `umask` of `007` will turn off the 3 permission bits for “other” in a file or directory created. `070` likewise would turn off the group permissions. The octal numbers correspond directly with the permission bits described above, so <br />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `umask` is usually represented by a string of octal numbers. So, for example, a `umask` of `007` will turn off the 3 permission bits for “other” in a file or directory created. `070` likewise would turn off the group permissions. The octal numbers correspond directly with the permission bits described above. A table of the relationship between octal numbers and permission bits is described in the table below.
```

Note: For files, the owner and group execute flags(bits) can occasionally be replaced with an ‘s’. In the owner’s permissions bits, an ‘x’ replaced with an ‘s’ indicates the file is executable but will execute with an effective user ID of the file owner. The ‘S’ replacing the ‘x’ in the group permission bits indicates the file can execute but with an effective group  set to the group of the directory. Essentially this means that new files and directories created under this directory will inherit the group of this directory. Finally, the “other” execute bit if set to ‘t’ or ‘T’, indicates that files in this directory can only be moved or deleted by the owner of the file.

For a more comprehensive and detailed exposition of the UNIX file system permissions, see the Traditional Unix permissions section of [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File-system_permissions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File-system_permissions).

> 

Reviewer: Can you turn the provided items in `How to turn on/off the execute bits` into a table? You could make one column `Description` and the other `Command`

Reviewer: This looks great!!

> 

Reviewer: Can you turn this part in `Umask and the mode creation mask` into a table:
```
7 = rwx
6 = rw-
5 = r-x
4 = r–
3 = -wx
2 = -w-
1 = –x
```
